I recently did my second speech within
level one of the Toastmasters Pathways
program and in just a few seconds I'm
going to show you that speech but if
you're preparing for your second speech
writing a speech with purpose and you
don't know where to start on the
planning process check out this video
that's popping up because I break down
all of the things you need to keep in
mind while preparing for that speech but
now let's take a look at my speech and
later on I'm going to discuss how I
did how do you have one-on-one
conversations that leave the other
person feeling
energized how do you create a more
Dynamic presence on social
media and how do you give presentations
that leave the audience feeling as
though they walk away with a ton of
value the answer to all of these
questions is well more
questions Mr Toastmaster fellow
Toastmasters here in person and Shania
on zoom in 2017 Harvard did a research
study because they wanted to understand
what makes a great
conversationalist they took three test
groups of people and group number one
was instructed to ask ask the majority
of questions in their
conversations group number two was
simply instructed to have regular
conversations and group number three was
purposefully asked to ask fewer
questions in those
conversations what they found time and
time again through all of this research
is that group number one was
consistently rated as more liked by
their conversation partners and this
makes sense
if we think about conventional wisdom
non-fiction books such as How to Win
Friends and Influence People there's
this idea of be interested not
interesting when we ask somebody about
their genuine interest it energizes them
if I ask Sue about her love of music or
what book she's reading or her favorite
board game it's likely that she's going
to feel energized by that convers ation
because she's passionate about those
things and when we're truly interested
in those things as well it unlocks
something within that
person now this translates to the
digital space as well for example I
could post on Facebook and I could say I
love
summer my favorite thing to do in the
summer is play beach
volleyball and that might get the odd
like maybe there's a few comments
underneath but by adding a few words to
that I can create a lot more engagement
I could say I love summer my favorite
activity is beach volleyball how about
you what do you love about summer and
now it's no longer me speaking at my
audience on social media it's me
inviting conversation and it's far more
likely that that will drive engagement
and we can take that to direct messages
as well if we're on Instagram and we're
going through our story
we have an option if we want to react to
somebody's Instagram story we can hit
the like or the heart button but instead
of that we can ask them a question
through the direct messages if I see
that Moya is on a trip through England I
can ask her I could say what's been your
favorite city that you've visited what
has been a highlight of this trip Dan I
see you're playing sports how long have
youve been playing this particular sport
not only am I deepening these
relationships digitally
but we we will actually be rewarded
algorithmically as well you see when
there's direct messages between two
people now naturally my content will
appear on Moya or Dan's Newsfeed more
often and his will or moas will appear
online because the social platform sees
oh wow these people must have a deeper
connection than your typical
relationship they're communicating
through the direct messages and so now
the content appears there a little more
often but how about public speaking how
could questions make a speech
better I don't expect you to answer that
but the fact that you thought I did sort
of proves the point because when we're
an audience and we're listening to
someone who's giving a presentation
we're a passenger we're simply leaning
back enjoying absorbing that information
but as soon as the speaker asks a
question all of a sudden we think oh
shoot is Wade asking me that question do
I have to participate it's a little shot
of adrenaline that
re-engages the attention of the
audience and by hearing other audience
members you make a richer presentation
as well that's one aspect but the second
is the research perspective which is
very important if you were asked to give
a presentation to a room full of
Realtors and you start talking about
the employee employer relationship you
start talking about how to impress your
boss well that's not going to resonate
with many Realtors because they're not
employees typically they are independent
contractors and so if you're going to
talk to this type of room asking
questions beforehand of the event
organizer perhaps of some key people who
are in the
audience understand what your audience
is what value that they can take away
from that presentation that will help
you shape your presentation to make it
as effective as possible so whether you
want to be an impactful Communicator in
one-on-one conversations an impactful
communicator on social media or an
impactful Communicator presenting to a
larger
audience the answer is actually
questions thank you Mr
Toastmaster all right there you have it
that was my level one speech number two
writing a speech with purpose
example overall I felt like it went
pretty well there was a couple areas
where I stumbled over words but for the
most part you set your expectations high
and I felt like I did a pretty good job
delivering that presentation let me know
in the comments whether you agree
whether you disagree but here are a few
ways I could have made this speech even
better some are my own criticisms some
are advice I was given to me by the
speech evaluator but the first was that
you probably saw it in the frame the
word pliability was the word of the day
and I never used that word in my speech
I always encourage Toast Masters try to
incorporate that word of the day I
failed in this particular situation I
was thinking about how to do it early on
and then it slipped out of my mind as I
got into the flow of present
the next thing I will say and this is
interesting because I've recently
started Pathways I've been a Toast
Masters member for many years but I've
avoided Pathways for the past five or
six years and so I just did my level one
speech number one Icebreaker a few weeks
ago there's a video about that on my
channel as well but now in doing this
one what I've noticed in these two
speeches is that I
am practicing slower than I'm presenting
when I was practicing the speech it was
around 7 minutes 30 seconds and I
thought uhoh I might run out of time on
the day of the presentation this one
clocked in at 5 minutes 30 seconds this
is one of my biggest challenges as a
speaker is that I speak quickly in front
of audiences I need to embrace slowing
down incorporating pauses and I thought
I was doing so but watching it back I
caught myself a few times speeding
through things that's a key piece of
advice for anyone but me especially is
to slow down the speaking the feedback
from my speech evaluator were two gifts
the first was to use more facial
expressions which is a really great
Point body language is so important when
we give speeches that is something I'll
keep in mind for future speeches and the
other piece of advice he gave me was to
reinstate the importance of why this is
important I talked about how asking
questions can help you be a more
impactful Communicator he challenged me
to thread that more often throughout the
speech of why people will want to take
action and actually start implementing
these things I thought it was an
excellent evaluation it was actually my
somebody I am mentoring who evaluated me
so that was a lot of fun but let me know
what you think how do you think that
speech went overall for me I really
enjoyed the process I've enjoyed getting
back into the pathway swing of things I
avoided writing speeches for years with
Toast Masters I've signed up for other
rules but this is tapping back into the
creativity and accountability of
practicing a formalized speech so if
you're like how I was before and you've
avoided Pathways I would encourage you I
am trying to be an example here and
actually work through the pathways
program and so far I've been really
noticing the rewards of doing so so I
hope that encourages you as well thank
you so much for watching this video if
you haven't already subscribed to my
Channel Please Subscribe it's the best
way you can help out my channel and then
there's going to be a video popping up
right now this one is important I
mentioned it earlier in this video I
Really break down the things you need to
know so if you're watching this and
you're planning to take on your second
speech check out that video because it's
going to break down all of the
essentials thank you for watching this
one